OpenAI recently released Whisper, a neural net that can approach human level robustness and accuracy for English speech recognition. This is significant because it marks a major advancement in ASR technology, which has been around for awhile but is only now becoming increasingly sophisticated.

Whisper is based on the idea of creating a spectrogram (an image of the frequencies of sound) and then decoding it into language. This process is usually resource intensive, but with recent advances in GPU technology, it is becoming increasingly possible to run ASR locally on a personal computer or mobile device.

This is significant because it opens up new possibilities for AI-saturated world. With more efficient algorithms and better hardware, we are quickly reaching a point where AI can be used for a variety of tasks, including voice recognition, that were previously only possible with the help of the cloud.

Invisible AI is all around us, working behind the scenes to make our lives easier. From curating our social media feeds to providing relevant search results, AI is becoming increasingly ubiquitous. As AI technology improves and becomes more efficient, it will soon be possible to run everything on our phones. This shift will allow us to decouple from the big tech companies and take control of our own data. In the future, we will see more self-contained AI agents, like the droids in Star Wars, that we can own and operate.

I had a chance to speak with the folks from Tau earlier, and they are working on integrating distributed artificial intelligence into their blockchain platform. This means that the Tau network will be able to self-upgrade, adding new capabilities as they are consensus. This is a significant departure from other blockchain technologies, which are largely static. The implications of this are far-reaching and could eventually lead to Tau becoming the go-to platform for AI development.

In recent years, there has been increasing interest in the potential for distributed artificial intelligence (DAI) and distributed autonomous organizations (DAOs). These concepts offer the promise of more efficient and effective ways of governing society and managing resources.

DAI refers to a type of AI that is distributed across a network of computers, rather than residing on a single server. This has the advantage of being more resilient to tampering or failure, as there would be no single point of failure. Additionally, DAI has the potential to be more intelligent than traditional AI, as it would be able to tap into the collective intelligence of the network.

DAOs are organizations that are governed by a set of rules encoded in software, rather than by humans. This has the advantage of being more transparent and efficient, as there would be no need for human leaders. Additionally, DAOs could be more responsive to change, as they could be programmed to automatically adapt to new circumstances.

The concept of using DAI and DAOs to govern society is still in its early stages, but there is potential for it to revolutionize the way we live and work. What questions do you have about DAI and DAOs?

There are many benefits to distributed AI, but the primary benefit is also the primary risk: it is resilient and difficult to shut down. If you can't shut it down, it could be a problem.

Distributed AI has two primary components: data and model. Data is the information that you're putting in, and model is the neural network or the support machine. When you have distributed AI, you're distributing both.

For instance, you can have data gathered in a distributed fashion. So you have many notes all contributing to data in this like grid fashion. Imagine that you have a city that's run by Owl, and then you have sensors all over that City like pedestrian sensors, sewage sensors, trash sensors, all kinds of stuff. The data is being shared in a public manner or maybe it's a private ledger, but the point is that the data is all being gathered in a single source of Truth.

Then you can have models also embedded in that network that are processing and telling garbage trucks where to go, for instance. This is a very basic use case, but it is a feasible first use case because it's also pretty safe. You're not going to worry too much about accidentally causing nuclear war if you have distributed AI telling dump trucks where to go.

And you're also not going to worry too much about privacy because you know a trash sensor like there's plenty of trash bins that have sensors already. My cousin worked on like radio trash like dumpster sensors like a decade ago or more that used I think 3G at the time. Not even 4G, they use 3G radios.

So then imagine that you've got you know Edge Computing devices that have a little bit of processing power and they're all connected together. You can have distributed AI that's telling dump trucks where to go.

This is just a very basic use case, but it demonstrates how distributed AI can be used in a safe and practical way.

The Case Network is a system that uses sensors to collect data and then uses large language models to analyze that data and find solutions to problems. The system is designed to be used by businesses, governments, and other organizations to find consensus on issues. The system builds up a representation of each participant in the network, called a "world view," and then uses those world views to find solutions to problems. The system is designed to be used by businesses, governments, and other organizations to find consensus on issues. The system is designed to be used by businesses, governments, and other organizations to find consensus on issues.

In his video, David Shapiro discusses the idea of using distributed AI to create a more democratic form of government. He argues that the most familiar model of consensus is the scientific method, which can be elitist and exclusive. However, he suggests that a natural language interface could allow everyone's needs and wants to be heard and advocated for, regardless of qualifications.

Shapiro then goes on to discuss the possibility of setting up a swarm using something like pedals, as well as the legality of stable diffusion and AI art.

In conclusion, Shapiro acknowledges that while he is not personally planning on setting up an open source swarm just yet, he is definitely supportive of anyone who wants to.

The question of whether or not AI-based avatars need to be aware of covert spyware is an important one. With the rise of distributed autonomous organizations, there is the potential for virtual copies of individuals to be interacting with other sources of information. If these avatars are not aware of covert spyware, it could lead to serious privacy breaches.

There are a few potential solutions to this problem. One is to have the avatar be aware of covert spyware and take steps to avoid it. Another is to have a human operator be aware of the spyware and take steps to avoid it. Either way, it is important to be aware of the potential for spyware to compromise the privacy of individuals interacting with AI-based avatars.

In recent years, models of artificial intelligence (AI) have become smaller and faster. One possibility for the future is that data will never leave an individual's device, or that it will be anonymized. However, this raises the concern of botnets adversarially attacking and manipulating data in order to change policy.

It's easy to generate a novel with AI, but that doesn't mean it's easy to be good at. I had a conversation with my fiance earlier about what it takes to be a successful AI billionaire. We discussed the importance of homomorphic encryption for ML training. This is an important area of research that is growing slowly, but my friend is one of the world's leading experts.

I decided to open source my AI-generated novel, Auto Muse. There are two reasons for this decision. First, I realized that everything I want to achieve with artificial cognitive entities and cognitive architectures is already being worked on by Tau, and I am just along for the ride. Second, I got feedback from my editor that showed me how much work is still needed to turn my first draft into a polished, publishable novel.

By open sourcing Auto Muse, I hope to contribute to the development of AI-generated novels and to help build consensus around the use of AI in this area.

It is possible to produce excellent writing with GPT3, as long as the text is around a thousand words. The biggest challenge is keeping track of an entire story, as 50,000 words is a lot of information to include in one prompt. However, it is possible to summarize a story concisely and still retain important details. I am working on a project to create an AI-based art classifier that can rank pieces of art, and it should be ready to share soon.