Hey everyone,

David Shapiro here. I just tried to record a video and the sound was broken, so let's try that again.

First, I wanted to give a community update. I created the Cognitive AI Lab Discord server a few months ago, just basically by popular demand. And it has grown rapidly to just over 200 members.

But I was getting burned out, so I just got back from vacation and did some soul searching while I was on vacation. And many of you in the community told me that I do a lot and I should take care of myself. You were right.

So after doing some soul searching on my vacation, I decided that it was time to step down from the server. But I also knew that a lot of people have commented on how unique this community is and that they want to see it keep going. So I made an announcement on the community that I really wanted to step down and that I needed to step away so that I can focus on my research and my writing.

And then I had more than half a dozen people message me saying that they would help run the server, that they would take over. I had people volunteering to take ownership, people volunteering to administer and moderate the server.

So what we're basically doing is over the next few days and maybe a week or two, we'll be doing a transition as we decide the new structure. And then I'll hand the reins over. I'm a big believer in community and consensus and open source, and in distribution of power. So I'm going to put up or shut up and demonstrate that I believe in that. And I'll eventually step down entirely. I'll just be a normal community member.

So that's a community update. Once that's done, we'll probably open the doors again as more people come in. We'll have better moderation and so on.

But then I wanted to plug a couple of books. So first is my upcoming book, Useless Platitudes and Truisms. This is a book of proverbs that I wrote because I love proverbs. They help me remember how to think and how to approach the world.

What I wanted was a book that I could just flip to a random page and find a piece of wisdom, because you don't always know what you need. But you flip to a random page and you get a couple pearls of wisdom. So, for example, on page 72 it'd probably be different because this is a print test, it says "Correlation does not imply causation." So that's a great maxim to live by.

Another one is "Silence is powerful. You can speak volumes with a closed mouth." And "Do not answer to lies, slandering, and needling. Do not dignify maliciousness with a response. So hold your tongue sometimes."

There are similar quotations to that. For instance, another one is "Least said soon as mended." So like, your tongue-silent speech is silver but silence is golden. I love love love these.

Anyway, so look for this. I'll have an announcement once this is fully ready. It's going to be on Barnes & Noble. And it's just a little pocketbook size.

Another book that I wanted to recommend is one that I just got in the mail from Thriftbooks. It's called Consensus Through Conversation: How to Achieve High-Commitment Decisions. Consensus is something that I use both professionally and personally, and it is tremendous. I cannot recommend consensus enough. I think that if everyone abided by consensus and collaborative mindsets, the world would be a better place.

So what is consensus? Consensus in this case is a formalized structure. The way that meetings happen now is called Robert's Rules or something. So everyone gets in a room and there's a clear power structure. And then there's a vote. And then you move on very quickly. This favors things like extraversion, assertiveness, and aggression. It's also a winner-takes-all approach. And it is so deeply embedded in our culture that everyone just follows it and doesn't realize that there's a better way.

The better way is consensus. Once you learn about consensus, you can implement it without other people knowing. And that might sound unethical, but let me tell you why this works.

One thing is that with consensus, you can take the consensus of the room and encourage people to speak up. So one way that you can implement consensus, for instance, if you're in a meeting or whatever, is you just call on someone and say "I haven't heard from you. What are your thoughts?" You're basically making yourself the de facto facilitator. And you can do that especially if the meeting doesn't have any leaders in it or if the leaders create space. So facilitation is critical for consensus.

And you ask a few primed questions or loaded questions, like "What problems do you see with this?" or "Is there anything we're missing?" You ask people these questions and you get everyone to participate. And more often than not, you'll be surprised by new information that comes out.

Consensus works really well for small groups. But it still works particularly well for couples because what you do is you find a solution that everyone buys into fully. And it takes creativity and negotiation. But you have to reach for some kind of middle ground that you're both enthusiastic about.

The biggest thing about consensus and collaborative decision making is that you work towards a solution that you're both enthusiastic about. And that everyone buys into fully. And it takes creativity. It takes negotiation. But you have to reach for some kind of middle ground that you're both enthusiastic about.

So that's it for now. Thanks for listening.

I've been thinking a lot about how to solve problems as a group, and I think consensus is a great method. It encourages everyone to put in their full brain power, which means that better solutions will be found than if anyone was working alone.

I'm currently working on three books: Symphony of Thought, which is about artificial intelligence; Post Nihilism, which is a commentary on the current zeitgeist; and the first novel in my trilogy. I'm also going to be meeting with an editor tomorrow to discuss my novel.

I'm really excited about the future of the community, and I think consensus is a great way to move forward. Thanks for all the support everyone has been phenomenal.