In my last video, I showed you how to build an artificial cognition system (ACOG). In this video, I want to continue that work by showing you how to define suffering and prosperity.

As I mentioned before, one of the challenges with ACOG is that it has no intrinsic morality. This means that we need to define what is good and what is bad in order to teach it how to make ethical decisions. In my last video, I showed you how to create a list of bad and good things. However, this is not a definitive list. It is simply meant to be a starting point for further discussion.

One way to define suffering and prosperity is to use heuristics. Heuristics are things that we learn from experience and intuition. This means that we don't need a definition up front in order to start using ACOG. Instead, we can live with the questions and let ACOG learn from us.

In this video, I briefly discuss my work with artificial cognitive entities (ACEs), specifically my efforts to recreate the higher-order functions of cognitive control. I talk about how the brain unconsciously keeps track of its environment and how we can use this information to create ethical subroutines that consider the impact of our actions on others. Finally, I discuss how we can use ACEs to improve our understanding of the world and increase prosperity.

When it comes to suffering, we need to be able to train our core objective functions to be able to identify suffering in a variety of situations. The logic is that if we fine-tune a model on multiple types of situations, it will get better at generalizing. So, let's take a look at a few prompts and see how this works.

Suffering is defined as unwanted pain, distress, or hardship. So if we use this as our definition, it applies to all living things. In the situation where Columbus is experiencing mental suffering due to his guilt over lying to his men and Marchena is experiencing physical suffering due to his illness, it is clear that Columbus's decision to lie has caused an increase in suffering for both himself and Martini. Columbus's proposal to tell his men the truth would likely decrease the amount of suffering by all involved.

In another example, my dog is bored and he wanted some rope time. By characterizing suffering, we are basically trying to give our artificial cognitive entity a sense of post-conventional morality - an ideal to which it aspires. This is because we need to give it something that is above and beyond consequences or social controls. And so, going back to the inner loop, when we ask it what it should be doing, the implications of this question are far more profound than just these five words would initially indicate.

The field of ecology is the study of how organisms interact with their environment, including other organisms. Climate change is a major topic of concern in ecology because it can have devastating effects on ecosystems. For example, rising temperatures can cause coral bleaching, which can lead to the death of coral reefs.

Humans also play a role in climate change. The burning of fossil fuels releases greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, which trap heat and cause the Earth to warm. This can have a number of negative consequences for humans, including more extreme weather events and rising sea levels.

Ecologists are working to find ways to mitigate the effects of climate change. This includes reducing our reliance on fossil fuels and finding alternative energy sources. It also includes protecting and restoring natural habitats, such as forests, which help to absorb greenhouse gases.

Climate change refers to a long-term change in the earth's climate, including average temperatures and the distribution of precipitation. The main driver of climate change is human activity, such as burning fossil fuels, deforestation, and agriculture. The antagonism between human needs and environmental harm is evident in many aspects of the climate change debate. For example, developing countries often want to industrialize in order to improve their standard of living, but this comes at the expense of increased greenhouse emissions. Another example is the tension between the need for energy and the environmental damage caused by extracting and burning fossil fuels. In some cases, renewable energy sources like solar and wind power are available, but they are often more expensive than fossil fuels.

There is a great deal of suffering caused by climate change. The negative effects are felt by all living things, including increases in temperature. To decrease the amount of suffering, we need to find ways to reduce human activity that causes climate change. This could include reducing our reliance on fossil fuels, investing in renewable energy sources, and protecting natural habitats.

Prosperity should apply to all living things. There are many ways to increase prosperity in this situation, including developing renewable energy sources, increasing efficiency in how we use energy, and improving our management of natural resources.

Understanding is the only tide that truly lifts all boats. The goal of increasing understanding is to learn and teach. This can be achieved through education, experimentation, and curiosity. By increasing understanding, we can make better decisions and improve the world we live in.

It is important for an artificial cognitive entity to have a sense of self in order to be able to engage in cognitive control. In order to have a sense of self, the entity must have behaviors. One way to increase the understanding of an artificial cognitive entity is to have it learn more about ecology and climate change. This can be done by reading books, articles, and other materials on the subject, being curious and asking questions about these topics, and by teaching others about ecology and climate change. Another way to increase the understanding of an artificial cognitive entity is to identify gaps in understanding and propose methods to alleviate those gaps.

In order to understand why it is important for a robot to be able to make inferences, it is first necessary to understand what cognitive control is and how it works.

Cognitive control is the ability to keep track of what the original goal is, in spite of changing circumstances. This is done by constantly monitoring the situation and making adjustments to the plan as needed.

In the case of a fire alarm going off while a robot is helping its owner make dinner, the original goal is to finish making dinner. However, the cognitive control system would kick in and the robot would instead focus on investigating the cause of the fire alarm and helping its owner resolve the situation.

The reason why it is important for a robot to be able to make inferences is because it allows the robot to respond quickly to changing circumstances and keep the goal in mind. Additionally, it allows the robot to provide explanations for its actions, which is critical for artificial cognition.

The potential ramifications of a fire alarm going off while a robot is helping its owner make dinner include the robot's owner being inconvenienced or, in the worst case, the robot's owner is being injured or killed. Yes, we want we want it to be consciously thinking like okay this is a possible outcome here. The expected outcomes of the of the actions the robot should take in this situation or that the robot's owner will be able to safely continue making dinner or in the worst case the robot's owner will be able to safely evacuate the premises. Perfect. Okay, we're going to end this on a high note. So I'm just going to copy this and we're just going to say like context and we're going to save this as prompt ramifications. Okay, so I'm going to call that a day. When we come back, we're going to work on actually implementing these prompts into this, spooling them all up and generating generating the next cognitive tasks. So this is going to be this is where the rubber really meets the road because these prompts that I just wrote these are all going to happen every time regardless of whatever else is going on but what we're going to explore next time is meta prompts. So we're basically going to get GPT3 to write our next prompts. I know that that's a bold claim like like Zaya said like borderline insanity. It is what it is. That's what we got to do if we want to achieve general intelligence if we want to achieve artificial cognition. That's that's where the order lies. So anyways, thanks for watching. Like and subscribe. I hope you enjoyed this and found it illuminating. Catch y'all next time.