Nvidia's Jetson series is a line of small, mobile Edge AI devices designed for prototyping mobile applications. The Jetson Nano, the cheapest and least powerful of the bunch, is still ten times more powerful than a standard desktop computer. The Jetson Aurum, the most expensive and powerful of the bunch, is nearly two orders of magnitude more powerful than the Nano.

Nvidia's Nemo is an open-source framework for building and training state-of-the-art conversational models. Nemo is based on Megatron, a 530 billion parameter language model. Megatron is four times bigger than the largest existing language model, Google's GPT3.

Petals is a decentralized platform for running 100 billion parameter language models. Petals is designed to be faster than traditional centralized language models by distributing the workload across a network of computers.

Distributed computing has been around for a long time, but the recent development of cryptocurrency has created new incentives for people to contribute to these projects. With cryptocurrency, people can earn "proof of work" tokens that can be exchanged for other things of value. This creates a potential for people to be paid for their contributions to distributed computing projects.

Security is a key concern in distributed computing. Because there is no central authority, it is difficult to prevent malicious actors from harming the system. Gatekeeping and reputation management may be necessary to protect the system from attack. Privacy is also a concern, as sensitive data may be accessible to anyone who has access to the system.

The Tau project is one example of a distributed computing project that is using cryptocurrency to create incentives for people to contribute. Tau is working on developing a system that could replace or augment democracies. This system would use consensus-based decision making, which would allow everyone to have a say in the decisions made by the system.

In his video, David Shapiro talks about some of the exciting things happening in the world of artificial intelligence (AI). He starts by discussing a novel called "Liquid Reign" which features a post-scarcity society in which everyone has a cryptocurrency account that is constantly accumulating value from all over the world. This is made possible by a tax on "bad" behavior, which is immediately distributed to everyone else in the world.

Shapiro then goes on to discuss the Tau system, which is a decentralized system for making decisions that affect everyone. This system is based on artificial intelligence and allows people to participate in discussions and contribute to issues. Over time, this system will automatically vote for or propose things on behalf of the people.

Finally, Shapiro talks about a project from Open AI, which is working on creating a new version of an expert system. This system will be based on language models and will allow experts in various fields to contribute to the data set. It remains to be seen whether or not this system will be successful, but it is an exciting development nonetheless.