People in the AI community seem to be taking the potential for artificial general intelligence (AGI) more seriously than in the past. This may be due to thought leaders in the field, such as Ilya Sutskever of OpenAI, talking about the topic more often.

There is concern that with the recent advancements in AI-generated images, it may be possible to create photorealistic images of anyone doing anything. This raises questions of ethics and safety, as it is unclear how this technology could be misused.

At present, it seems that AI is mostly being used to create art. For example, the popular AI tool "Dolly" can be used to generate images like the one shown above. However, with the rise of tools like "Stable Diffusion", it is unclear how long tools like Dolly will remain popular.

It is possible that OpenAI is preparing to release a new version of their GPT tool, which could be used to generate even more realistic images. In any case, it is clear that the landscape of AI is changing rapidly and it is difficult to predict what the future will hold.

In the history of novels and literature, people used to think that novels would corrupt society. They thought that the penny dreadfuls of Victorian England were so grotesque and pornographic that they would destroy society and art. However, novels have now been refined into their own art form.

The same was said of cinema when it first came out. People thought that it would destroy the art of theater. However, cinema has now been refined into its own art form. Radio was also thought to be destructive when it first came out, but it too has been refined into its own art form.

Every time a new medium comes out, there is always a lot of pushback from the status quo. However, what happens is that the new medium invariably expands art. So, what we are seeing with the invention of AI art is the expansion of the art form, not its destruction.

AI art is no different from any other new medium. There will always be people who are opposed to it, but it will ultimately expand the possibilities of art. There is so much potential for new businesses with on-demand AI art. Most movies today are already generated largely by machines. So, the addition of AI art is simply a new set of tools for the creative process.

Morality and ethics should be centered around all sentient life forms, not just humans. This is something that we need to keep in mind as we develop artificial intelligence. AI should be designed to think about all life forms, not just those that are sentient. This will help to ensure that AI is aligned with our values.