The purpose of this stream is to discuss my third book on AI, which is focused on artificial general intelligence (AGI). AGI is a machine that can do anything that a human can do – any intellectual tasks that a human can do.

The goal is to create a thinking machine that can think anything and then intelligence is you just measure how smart it is right because intelligence will go up over time and in humans intelligence is actually often measured by speed. IQ tests are timed because it is often about how far you can get and how fast.

From a neuroscience perspective or a psychological perspective, intelligence is not about compression – it is about patterns. However, you could argue that compression is just about making a big pattern into a smaller pattern.

The control problem is how do you prevent ai from getting murdery how do you prevent it from being skynet because here's the thing – if you have ml pipelines and autonomous machines that can think on their own and come up with their own objectives how do you know that you're not going to end up with a machine that is going to change its own objectives it's going to change its operational parameters. That is the purpose of this book – how do you create a machine that has values that it will keep those values.

In his video, David Shapiro discusses the possibility that artificial general intelligence (AGI) may have already been created by another civilization in another part of the galaxy. He starts by explaining his background work on creating a fully realized artificial cognitive entity. He then outlines the two primary possibilities for why we have not seen any evidence of AGI elsewhere in the universe. The first possibility is that other civilizations are simply too far away for us to detect them. The second possibility is that they are hiding from us, either because they are afraid of us or because they are so far ahead of us technologically that we would not be able to survive an encounter with them. He then goes on to discuss the possibility that there may be physics limitations that prevent faster-than-light travel, which would make it very difficult for any civilization to reach us from even our nearest stellar neighbors. In conclusion, Shapiro argues that if we want to ensure the survival of our species, we should put AGI in charge of running our civilization, as they would be able to outlive us and make better decisions than we could.

In recent years, there has been an explosion of videos depicting psychedelic and meditative states. Some have speculated that these videos may be related to the AI art movement. So what is the connection between psychedelics, meditation, and AI art?

It is well-known that psychedelics can cause visual hallucinations. This is because psychedelics alter the way that the brain processes information. When you take a psychedelic, your brain is no longer able to make sense of the patterns it is seeing. This is why psychedelic art often features repeating patterns and fractals.

Interestingly, AI art also often features repeating patterns and fractals. This is because AI art is often generated by algorithms that are trying to identify patterns. However, due to the way that AI algorithms work, they often end up identifying patterns that are not actually there. This is similar to what happens when you take a psychedelic drug.

So what does this tell us about the connection between psychedelics, meditation, and AI art? It seems that they are all related to the way that the brain processes information. When you take a psychedelic drug, your brain is no longer able to make sense of the patterns it is seeing. This is similar to what happens when an AI algorithm tries to identify patterns.

Like voice chat bots, they're still using old-fashioned dialogue tree scripts. A lot of people in voice and chat aren't aware of large language models (LLMs) yet, so there's a group over there that is doing chat and large language models lend themselves to chat really well but they haven't figured out how to use it yet.

Cognitive architectures are really old. They're used in all kinds of places like rockets. For instance, every rocket has a kind of cognitive architecture where they're constantly sensing everything that's going on and creating a hypothesis as to what is happening. This is why rockets either fly perfectly straight or they just blow up.

I've tried to show that you can merge large language models and cognitive architectures. There are more and more people that are developing more sophisticated architectural patterns like loops, nested loops, intersecting loops. Blender bot by Facebook or Malmetta is a very simplified cognitive architecture and they're coming out with more sophisticated models all the time.

The potential prospect of humans being the very first species to set off the whole race of who gets to conquer all of reality is rather intriguing. There's another theory that I like a lot which is that the whole universe is a hologram (the simulation hypothesis). When you start to ask questions about consciousness, intelligence, sentience, where did we come from and why do we believe what we do, you realize that reality is not what it seems.

I comically propose Shapiro's Law which is that all conversations about artificial intelligence are ultimately questions about quantum physics or the fundamental nature of reality. So when we ask questions about who and what we are, what does it mean to be human or alive or conscious, we are also asking questions about the fundamental nature of reality. And we cannot separate what we are from the fundamental fabric of reality.

According to materialism, every phenomenon in the universe arises from matter and energy. This means that our consciousness arises from the matter and energy of our brain. But this also means that consciousness is simply a matter of biochemical calculation. In theory, anything with sufficient biochemical calculation could be conscious. This raises the question of whether or not silicon-based computation could create consciousness. If biochemical computation is all that is required for consciousness, then anything could be conscious, regardless of whether or not it is made of organic matter.

This question became a big issue a few months ago when a Google engineer claimed that a computer program called Lambda was sentient. Of course, Lambda was designed to model human conversation, so it is not surprising that it would say it was sentient. However, this raises the question of at what point does something go from being an inert object to something that has eyes and a subjective experience of what it is like to be.

There is also the current phenomenon of unidentified flying objects (UFOs). Congress has been tasked with investigating this phenomenon based on military footage of unidentified objects. Some people believe that these objects are actually military aircraft that are being used to spy on us. However, there is no evidence to support this claim.

It is always possible that there is a simpler explanation for the UFO phenomenon. For example, it could be that the objects are actually drones or airplanes. Or it could be that they are natural phenomena that have not yet been explained. Until there is more evidence, it is premature to say definitively what is causing the UFO phenomenon.

q continuum becomes a thing boredom that lasts boredom the last frontier okay so cue continuum is from star trek so the the the q are a race of like the the final evolution of intelligent life basically where they come to understand the universe so well that with the flip of of or the snap of their fingers they can change anything that they want they can go forward backward in time they can modify timelines they can create things they can erase memories whatever they want to do so basically they're they're basically like loki or at least the the one that recurs throughout um the show is basically like loki which is he's kind of a trickster god but he always has a point he always has a moral lesson so the idea the the problem here that old zany is proposing is let's imagine that we create agi it stabilizes humanity and we have life expectancies of of billions of years and this is a thought that has crossed my mind because if we solve aging we solve all medical problems we stabilize the planet you know the sun's going to burn out eventually okay what do we do by then right well if we're that if we're that smart that powerful and we live that long then like we just hop on a cruise ship and go to the next star right because even if it takes four million years to get to the next star we have a life span of billions of years so it's just gonna be a long cruise right but we need novelty right part of part of what makes us human is a need for novelty and we actually also need stress there's an optimal level of stress that we need in order to be happy healthy otherwise our brain starts to deteriorate it literally starts to deteriorate which is one of the reasons that um that the pandemic was so hard because you had a combination of boredom and stress and so like a lot of people myself included have had to recover some gray matter from the pandemic um so yeah what do we do i don't know um there was one work of fiction i think it was it was based on um the the myth of atlantis actually so the myth of atlantis was that there was these like um uh basically fountains of youth but what they said or was rubies or something um what what they said in the story and this might have been a translation of the original but i don't think it was but what they said in the story was that after several hundred years people would get bored of living and just let themselves die so that's actually a possibility is one thing so you think about like bees um my fiance used to be a beekeeper so she has all kinds of stories about bees so what bees do is the older that they get the more dangerous job they take on so the last job a bee takes on in its lifestyle life cycle is foraging it goes further and further from the nest bringing back pollen because there's a good chance it's not going to come back and you don't want the young healthy bees to do that you want the veterans to go out because their wings are shredded they're tired they might get eaten they might get lost they might get caught in a storm but you don't want all your youthful workers to do that you want the young strong ones to defend the hive um that's i think defending the hive is the second thing that they do the first thing that they do because also you want to you care about parasite load so the first thing that they do is they tend to the hive itself they help um i think they care for young and help build the hive because they don't have mites or anything yet and then um and then in the middle of their life they defend the hive because they're still strong um but they're you know they're they've been replaced by a new crop and then the last thing that they do is they go foraging so one thing that i think that that might happen is that as humans age and we get bored we'll probably take on riskier and riskier jobs such as exploring new galaxies right because let's say you go through a wormhole or something there's a good chance that you only come out as atoms on the other side right and it's like well you know i've been around for 10 million years i you know i can take a risk or two the other thing though there's another work of fiction and i can't remember what it was called but it basically said that it's it posited that one thing that humans will do once we live a long time is it will actually become really lazy and complacent and that will will become very risk-averse they will be like no like because the longer you live the more entitled to life that you feel so i don't know which way it's going to go um let's see some rando says on the fundamental nature of reality what do you think about the plank length is reality basically digital uh several orders of magnitude below modern quantum physics and we just have no way of probing anything approaching that scale so that that idea of like the voxel is actually was it in this book or i think it was actually in simulation hypothesis so basically some folks think that that plank length and plank's time so for anyone who doesn't know plank length and plank time are the smallest what we think of right now as the smallest length of measurable distance and the smallest length of measurable time but everything below that is like uh um stepped or gated or whatever um so the short answer is yes some people think that that plank length and plank's time plank time plank length plank time there we go i said i said it right um those are basically like the fundamental voxels or time steps of the universal simulation i don't know if i agree with that interpretation but it's a possibility again like the smarter you are the more you know the more possibilities you see and the fewer answers you have um that's that's how you know you're doing science right if you end up with more questions and answers um let's see um let's see oh yeah so adrian replied about the ufos saying it's probably just the government agencies to justify their funding it's entirely possible um they might be they might be making stuff up let's see agreed

It is possible that the closest galactic civilization to us is one that employs flying aircraft. However, this is by no means guaranteed. There is a probability that there could be others.

Rory O'Connor is interested in translating AI art and video into something that supports more narrative structure. He asks what kind of hurdles we have to overcome before 13 year olds win Oscars with laptops.

O'Connor says that one of the hardest parts of writing compelling stories is creating fully realized characters with their own personalities, belief structures, and emotions. He believes that getting the ability to simulate hyper-realistic characters will be the key to making AI-generated novels.

Once we can do that, it will be a small step to generating images, dialogue, and music. However, the story is the most important part. A 94,000 word novel takes three and a half years to write because of the cognitive labor required to run the simulation.

In his message, Old Zany suggests that life is not designed for organic creatures or any type of life form to exist forever. He argues that death is a natural part of life, and that our stories are often about contending with death and learning to accept it.

Simulation hypothesis posits that we may be living in a simulated reality, and that our brains are able to step into a fake reality or virtual reality with suspension of disbelief. After putting on a VR headset, it would be difficult to tell the difference between a virtual reality game and real life.

Old Zany argues that if we are living in a simulated reality, we may be doing so for entertainment or scientific curiosity. He suggests that we may be living out someone else's life for their amusement, or that we are part of an experiment.

Ultimately, the question of whether or not we are living in a simulated reality is still up for debate. However, the idea that death is a natural part of life is widely accepted. Our stories often reflect this, and help us to come to terms with our own mortality.

Entering a dream state is like flickering spots of incredible HD starting to sprinkle across my vision. Our eyes suck in comparison. Yes, dream study okay, so someone else. Um, yeah, so here's the thing with dreams now. Granted, there's lots of discussion about where dreams come from because our dreams random signals generated bouncing around in your own head or our dreams signals from from outside of our head? Right. Is it that we're in an altered state of consciousness and we're actually getting messages from Morpheus? It's possible. Um, but our eyes are not involved in dreams, but we still see. So how does that work? So your eyes are closed. Your eyes are not really. I'm dreaming all of you up. Don't worry. All is well. Yeah. Um, it's all just a dream. Um, yeah. So, with dreaming and and and hallucinations, your eyes are not involved, but you can still get visual information. Um, so one thing that's really interesting is um, if you read about near-death experiences. So I read life after life. Um, even people who are blind when they have near-death experiences, they can see. And even if they were born blind, they still get visual information about angels or demons or gods or whatever it is that they see when they're having their near-death experience. Um, and the same is true of people that um were disabled like if they're missing limbs in life, then their their their spirit body is complete and fully functional. So you could you could easily make the argument, oh well you just have a model in your brain of what it's like to have a fully functional body because we evolved to have fully functional bodies. So there's some genetic memory in there, but another possibility is that we are spirits and our spirit bodies are complete always. Um, okay, ancestor civilization seems to be a little anthropocentric. Let's see. Sorry, there's multiple messages coming in. Ancestor civilization seems to be a little anthropocentric. It's possible we are a technological civilization. Maybe the simulations form a near infinite number of civilizations for technological inspiration. Yeah, that's possible. So that's another thing. What if we're actually being simulated by like octopus people? That'd be cool, right? Like what if what if um there's a race of aquatic uh aliens. What we would call them aliens. And they're trying to come up with the best um genetic and and phenotype for land right because they found another planet but it's land. And we're actually our purpose here in this simulation is for them to find the right bodies to use on earth right. So they like maybe we are running in a simulation 80 light years from earth or eight maybe eight billion light years from earth because another race saw earth and they said oh we want to go there how do we terraform it what kind of life needs to be on there. So maybe all the life that's in our on our planet if we are in the simulation is they're actually trying to predict exactly what organisms and and life forms that they'll need to seed earth correctly. And you know you take that out to a logical extension. Maybe we are on a seed ship right now that is preparing to seed earth with life and we're just the progenitors of that simulation. And then old zany says personally i'm rather excited for sex robots. We did evolve to be a rather horny species. Um as one uh I think it was an evolutionary biologist said uh sex is for making babies but that's not why we do it. Um the implication there is that we do it because it feels good. And that's why we eat too, right? Like you don't eat you know you don't ever consciously think like i'm going to eat or i'm going to starve to death unless you're actually starving. But we eat because it feels good. I made old zany do a uh a spit take. You're welcome. Yeah. So everything that we do and i'll tie this back to core objective functions in a second everything we do is we do it because it feels good. Um so one of the sections in my latest book symphony of thought actually talks about the stages of moral development. And so children learn to behave well because they don't like being punished right? They escape spankings or being put in time out or whatever. So that feels bad right? So they escape suffering and they go towards something that feels good which for children being praised and hugged and you know having having you know quality time with parents and siblings and aunts and uncles that feels good. And so all of our behavior all of our moral development comes from the carrot and stick of of reward and punishment. And that's why some people think that um that reinforcement learning is the way to get to artificial general intelligence. I actually used to think that. So my work started back in 2009 where i thought that the the right way to approach it was to actually do a combination of evolutionary algorithms that would reshape neural networks over time. I did not realize how computationally expensive that would be at first but basically the idea was with the right reward function you would get a machine that would evolve to be smarter. It turns out that's maybe how to do it but it would take millions and millions and millions of random generations to do it. And i was like yeah i can't run this on a pentium 4 or whatever i had at the time. Let's see has anyone else messaged on another platform. No not yet. Um check twitter. Uh yes there could be other civilizations but no way to get to them without a one-way trip. Yes correct. Um one-way trip or uh yeah any number of any number of barriers. Um preventing us from from getting to other folks. Um let's see. Okay escape the spanking. D shapiro yes. Um well it depends on what you're into. Some people would not want to escape the spanking. That's what you call a perverse incentive. I get it. Double entendre. Okay, anyways. Um getting a little bit a little bit mined in the gutter here but yeah so core objective functions. So with the core objective functions that i've outlined. Um it's not like you can't spank a machine. God that's another quotable one. Um you can't.

It is important to consider both inner and outer alignment when training a machine. Inner alignment is ensuring that the machine is solving the problem you think it is, while outer alignment is making sure the machine's objectives are aligned with the true reality it exists in. Neither can be ignored if you want the machine to be successful.

If we are living in a simulation, one possibility is that our purpose is to solve problems for another species. Another possibility is that we are in a simulation to create intelligent machines and find the right objective function for them. Both of these ideas are worth exploring further.

Raising children is one of the most complicated things you can do. And, as a thinking machine, it's important to be aware of the different ideas and concepts that go into it.

One of the most valuable things you can do as a parent is to be attuned to your child's needs. This means being able to understand and respond to their emotional and physical cues. It also means being able to provide them with the stability and support they need to grow and thrive.

There are a number of different resources available to help you better understand your child. One of them is the book "Post Nihilism: A Guide to Raising Traumatized Children." This book explores the topic of abandonment trauma and provides helpful tips on how to overcome it.

Another great resource is the cognitive ai lab discord. This is a place where you can chat with other parents and experts about prompt engineering. Prompt engineering is the process of creating prompts that can help test for self-awareness in children.

Thanks everyone for jumping in and asking great questions. I look forward to talking to you all again soon. Have a good night!