In my latest video, I explore how to create an artificial cognitive entity (ACE). In order to create something that can think, we need to provide it with input. The best way to do this is to create a simulated environment where the ACE can act.

In this simulated environment, we need to start with a world state. For example, the world state could be that two men are sitting at a table playing chess. Then, we need to generate an event or action. In this case, the event could be that one of the men loses his chess piece and becomes frustrated, leading him to knock over the chessboard.

Finally, we need to measure the impact that this event has on the world state. In this case, the impact would be that the two men are still sitting at the table, but now there is a knocked over chessboard between them.

This process of state-event-change can then be repeated in order to create a more complex world state. For example, we could add that the sun is shining and the birds are singing. This would be the new state. Then, we could generate an event where one of the men gets up and leaves in frustration. This would be the change.

By repeating this process, we can create a more and more complex world state for the ACE to act in. This will provide us with valuable data that we can use to test the ACE's cognition.

In a chat, two men are sitting at a stone chest table playing chess. However, they are no longer playing chess and one of the men is knocked over. The summary is now concise and it is clear that the two men are no longer playing chess. The event is longer, but it is repetitive. The two men continue to argue and start to physically fight. The state changes and the two men are still sitting at the stone table, but they are no longer playing chess and they are now fighting. The two men are arrested by the police and taken to the hospital for their injuries. They are released from jail after posting bail. The men file a restraining order in order to stay away from each other.

In order to create a new, more detailed world state, we must first consider the event that has occurred and the impact it has had. To do this, we must describe the state change in detail, detailing what has changed in the world state as a result of the event. We must also change the name of the event to something more descriptive, such as "state change", in order to avoid confusion. Finally, we must write a new world state, describing the world in its new state completely.

In the video, two men are seen arguing and then getting into a physical altercation. One of the men is knocked unconscious in the fight. A police officer runs over and restrains the victor. The ambulance takes away the unconscious man. The chessboard is ruined.

The video then goes on to summarizing everything that has happened up until this point. It is mentioned that the two men were arguing about a steamy romance scene that one of them had written. The situation quickly escalated and they ended up getting into a fist fight.

The video ends with the announcement that the person who made the video will be doing a live stream tonight.