I wanted to talk about the difference between being multi-disciplinary, interdisciplinary, and trans-disciplinary. Multi-disciplinary is when you have a team where every individual has one specialization and they all contribute to the same problem. Interdisciplinary is when you have disparate disciplines coming together to transform and create a new discipline, but it's still individuals. When you're transdisciplinary, it is when you as an individual merge many disciplines and create something new.

I'm writing a book on artificial cognition, and I'm bringing 15 years of my professional experience with systems engineering to the table. I'm viewing intelligence as a system, not as a monolith. I'm combining my knowledge of social science, psychology, neuroscience, business, and all my professional experience to create a new perspective on artificial cognition.

Fiction is important because fiction is a really great way to kind of fertilize your mind. My bottom shelf is all about spirituality, philosophy, and mysticism. I've also read almost all of this bookcase with a few exceptions here and there. Every time I would get to an impasse with designing artificial cognition and designing these systems, I was like, "Wait, I need to learn more about this." For instance, with my core objective functions or the heroes to comparatives, I had the intuition that reducing suffering and increasing prosperity and increasing understanding was good, but I needed to back it up. So I went and read all kinds of books, and I was able to back up my intuition with a solid foundation.

Everything that I have learned either professionally or through these books or through my independent research all comes together in the design of artificial cognition. So anyways, I just wanted to give this update and explain that you probably won't see many coding videos. They'll probably still happen here and there as I'm doing experiments to write about in my book.

I'm working on a book called Symphony of Thought, which is about the microservices architecture. I'm also writing a book called Post Nihilism, which is about the philosophy behind this architecture. I'm recording the results of my work so far, so that people can see that it's not just theory, but that it actually works.

The Post Nihilism book is about the nihilistic crisis that we are currently facing. This crisis is being driven by four primary factors: childhood abandonment, social abandonment, cosmic abandonment, and self-abandonment. I believe that if we can address these factors, we can alleviate the nihilistic crisis.

Self-abandonment is the most egregious symptom of the nihilistic crisis, and is most evident in mass shootings. However, there are other symptoms of self-abandonment, such as deaths from despair (drug overdoses, alcoholism, suicide, etc.). I believe that if we can address the root causes of self-abandonment, we can reduce the incidence of these symptoms.

I'm working on six books in total, and my goal is to get as many of them done as possible. I hope that my work will help people to understand the nihilistic crisis and how to address it. Thanks for watching!